you have
so much potential
[Music]
i hope you live
trust me you're gonna have me
it's huge it's fantastical it's unlike
anything
else that's out there
it's been called the greatest science
fiction novel of all time
and is at its heart really a
coming-of-age story
not just for paula tradies but for
humanity
i read the novel when i was younger had
a huge impact on me
if there's anybody out there who could
do it it's denis villeneuve
welcome to one of the most exciting
interviews
of my career timothy chalamet
rebecca ferguson oscar isaac josh brolin
zendaya sharon duncan brewster jason
momoa
javier bardem and genevaneuve
i've been incredibly excited uh about
this movie coming out i've
gobbled up every bit of released set art
character design casting reveals
photography as the cast in character and
everything
i've seen as a longtime fan looks
absolutely perfect
i've been so excited that i actually
went back and i've been rereading the
book i'm sort of at a fever pitch
of my dune enthusiasm right now and i
hadn't read it since i was 19 years old
and i can't believe how much of it has
stuck with me since then
i first read it when i was not that much
older than paula tradies
and of course i was paula tradies and i
believed that fear was the mind killer
and i would let the fear pass through me
and i would when the fear passed through
i would watch its path and when the fear
was gone only i would remain
but i didn't even realize it until just
now i went back and read
how influential it was please welcome
my first two guests dunes director and
star denis venue
and timothy chalamet hi guys how are
you hi stephen thank you for having us
for each of you what was your first
encounter with the story danny let's
start with you
like you i was the age of paula 3ds i
was 15 years old and i was grabbed right
at the beginning of the first pages and
i
read the whole series and i became a
june fan i became obsessed by it timothy
how about you when did you first
encounter the story of tim
well i'd love to say i came to it in my
youth as well because i can see uh
for you stephen and also denis as well
and other people that have worked on
this
project now how formative it was in
their youth uh but the truth is i
i came to it following denise's career
and seeing the article on indy wire or
whatever it was at the time that he'd
become attached to direct it well i have
good news for you
timothy you still have an opportunity to
encounter it in your youth
what can you tell us about paul tradies
who is he
paula tradies is a young man facing
extraordinary circumstance an
extraordinary struggle is trying to
navigate it with integrity with honor
with the faith in the tradition of house
tradies and of dupletto his father
paul sees that there's the potential
that he is on a path greater than he
understood that perhaps he's not a
simply a regular man diddy what was it
about timothy chalamet
that you said that would be the perfect
person to realize this role
timothy has many qualities among them
something there's a deep deep
intelligence
in the eyes and he has a whole soul i
have the impression when you talk with
timothy that
he lives many lives and it's something
that really touched me
and in the same time he looks so young
on camera so that contrast of having
someone that
seems to have a lot of experience uh and
in the same time being like uh
in the middle of his teenage years is
polar treatise
[Music]
timothy one of paul's incredible traits
from
when i read from the book is his
adaptability his ability to listen and
to perceive
the essential moment is that anything
like acting to you
yeah you feel the environment
specifically for the role of paul and
thank you to denis i don't know
the other actors could speak to it
better than i could especially josh
worked on sicario with denis
but i think i did two scenes on a green
screen i think it's literally two scenes
i did on a green screen and uh
besides that everything else was
practical well denis what do those real
locations mean
for you to be in those spaces where you
can make discovery
for me one condition i had to shoot the
movie was that i wanted to shoot in the
real desert my argument was that they
didn't shoot jaws in a swimming pool
the title is dune we needed to be in the
real environment so we will be inspired
by
the infinity when you're shooting in the
desert in jordan
the spirituality of the location and
i'll ruin it with my words so i won't
even try but you're really in it
that's why at the very cards it's a
tragedy about a family
going into a new environment denis this
is a sweeping story
in so many ways but one of the important
things you have to understand
is the dynamics between house of tradies
and house harkonnen i will say that my
secret weapon
for that was a stellen skarsgard after
five seconds on screen people will
understand right away
what is his is a position regarding the
3ds and what is the difference of
moral values between the 3ds and the
archon ends
timothy let's bring out the man and the
woman who play your parents
do glitter with tradies and the lady
jessica please welcome
oscar isaac and rebecca ferguson hi
hey stephen tell me and and the audience
about duke leto atreides what do we need
to know
he's the father and he's human i think
that's the biggest thing
and uh under incredible pressure to save
his family save his house
but to adapt to this new existential
threat situation which is moving to this
strange planet
rebecca rereading the book uh right now
i am struck
by how much of the story uh the
backstory
and the action of the story is actually
driven by the decisions that lady
jessica makes i'm very impressed with
the fact that you stephen actually read
the book again
but it's a little applause to denny he
highlighted this from the book
in the film that her decisions basically
creates
fracture and disrupts
everything oscar what's it like to be
there on
these grand uh sets sort of
unprecedented
in their scale well i'll just say that
you know
no set piece no
x-wing no millennium falcon could
compare to the sheer
scale of josh brolin's head
it was it was just um it was it was
massive both literally and figuratively
and um and just the it really made me
feel like i was in an
alien planet those voices are familiar
to all of you out there so
let's bring in some more of the dune
cast jason momoa
javier bardem and josh brolin duncan
idaho still gar
and gurney halek hello gentlemen and i
use that term loosely
hello this is for all of you how do each
of your characters
fit into the world of arrakis
and house of tradies let's start with
you jason who are you
i'm duncan idaho i'm basically the
greatest fighter in the
world galaxy for that matter
no i kind of look at myself as the
servant to the atreides
uh you know he's the samurai he's the
front line he's trusted by the duke to
be sent into arrakis
and meet stilgar and combine two worlds
together
and at the root of it he just would do
anything to protect paul
and the family of betrayes and um looks
up to
all these guys javier tell us who
stilgar is
well stilgar is the head chief of the
people that live
deep in the desert of the planet iraqis
which is also known as dune
he's a leader he's a fighter he has a
lot of ethics and morals
and he's taken by the message that the
messiah
paul atreides is bringing with him hey
josh you're gurney
halleck who is he he's a musician oh
do you play the ballet set in the movie
i do i've been playing the ballast set
actually since i was about seven or
eight years old so which is why i was
hired you're a prodigy
i'm the only person who plays the
ballast
uh gurney is the war master he's also
kind of a parent of sorts and he's taken
a real liking to this to this kid and i
think he has a real soft spot
because he's this great kind of
braveheart warrior but at the same time
has a love of poetry and kind of heart
and there's a softness to him
we have a fan question do any of the
three of you tough guys
think you could survive on arrakis no
way not me
but uh those still suits as they call it
which is our
are the suits that they are wearing the
framing in order to survive in the
stream situation of the desert
they were built amazingly well because
once you
you wear them you were free to move and
there was kind of a cold
fresh air breeze inside the suit i
didn't get that model
i missed out on that suit too that was
definitely yeah
mine would hold a bowl of me like soup
i've never run this much in my life
and then he had me run across the desert
and i was like i'm not gonna give up i'm
not gonna give up but inside i was
crying like a little baby
uh we have a fan question here for jason
who do you think would win in a fight
duncan idaho
or cal drogo um
duncan idaho really what gives him the
edge
um those little swords he's got
sure okay that helps all right please
welcome zendaya and sharon
duncan brewster thanks so much for being
here hello
hello happy to be here sharon
your character liet kinds is a man in
the novel
tell me about the conversations you and
denis had
about your taking in this role well i
think first and foremost
as far as denis was concerned it was all
about concentrating
on the essence of of this person he's an
integral role
he connects all the dots he connects the
harkonnens he connects house of atreides
he connects the fremen planet arrakis
the sand worms this is somebody who
understands all these worlds and moves
in between each and every one
so i don't think it matters that kinds
in the book is a man
what's important is what kind stands for
zendaya uh
i have a fan question for you what most
excited you about playing johnny
she's tough right she's she's a warrior
that she's native to this planet this is
um
this is all she knows and so this this
kind of you know
other kid coming in she's you know not
really
not really feeling it you know but she
sees something in him that is obviously
an indicator of what what is to come
for you and and this question also for
for timothy
these are about young people coming into
their own
in a world where they face impossible
odds and the world itself
is in many ways broken anything you can
relate to there
as a young person growing up in our
world right now a little bit
i do think there's a possibility of
someone seeing this movie
um with the coming of age that johnny
and paul are
stepping into both in a huge
obligation of birthright but also what
all 15 16 17 18 year olds go through
which is just
that growing up is hard there is
a metaphor and i think a lesson in this
movie for everyone
to this to any cast members here this is
this is a this is a jump ball here
what life lessons do you take away from
dune
i think for me this entire cast
and the way that it was shot it was
quite an intense shoot
taught me an incredible amount
about myself and the desert
it's so big
it's basically mother nature engulfing
you and going you mean and nothing
it takes away the ego this was a special
project
in reminding us of the things that get
in the way of of connecting in communal
you know communal bliss this film set
the bar
and how i want to have my career go
working with denis and this level of
actors i learned
so much every day and i laughed
constantly
i felt beautiful in this film so
denny i love you buddy we've been living
our own
dystopian future why do you think this
is the moment for doom
it's going to be a mammoth moment when
people have the chance to
experience something that is not only
just
exquisite a feast for the eyes but is
also
something that we should take home with
us and into our hearts
this film can inspire change
dune is a movie about the capacity of
adaptation because there's a lot of
changes that are coming
that's why i think that uh dune is more
relevant than ever
this whole thing has been a magical
experience and to be a part of something
that felt this massive but also just
feels like another
well quite literally another world it is
very special
this is the moment we've all been
waiting for ladies and gentlemen
the world premiere of the feature
trailer
of dune
there's something happening to me
there's something awakening in my mind i
can't control it
what did you see
there's a crusade coming
[Applause]
do you often dream things that happen
just as you dreamed them
yes
the test is simple remove your hand from
the box
and you die what's in the box
[Applause]
pain
you inherit too much power you have
proven you can rule yourself
now you must learn to rule others
something
none of your ancestors learnt
my father rules an entire planet he's
losing it
he's getting a richer one he'll lose
that one too
[Applause]
this is an extermination
picking my family off one by one
let's fight like demons
an animal caught in a trap will nor off
its own leg
to escape what will you do
[Music]
i know you
one day the legend will be born
[Music]
all of civilization depends on it
the future i can see it
[Music]
i must not fear
fear is the mind killer
my lord duke where the fear is gone
only i will remain
go go
[Music]
oh
well there you have it i want to thank
warner brothers and legendary
and denis and the entire cast and i want
to thank everybody out there
for watching this today and uh
i will see all of you in the theater to
see this movie thanks so much
take care of my friends
i love you